good afternoon
how's everybody doing
let's
let's start off with a round of applause
for the saster team here
to be able to pull off an event like
this
under these circumstances is simply
amazing so we're thankful to the entire
saster team for really bringing the
community
of leaders founders
vps
practitioners all together here in one
open space
so i'd like to start off by saying that
i am really privileged to have the
opportunity to have
katrina and asoveri here with me
both have been truly instrumental in
helping me become a better leader a
better person
and still today we collaborate on
ideas around go to market around
marketing on how to really build
different type of engines to scale
companies so katrina why don't you first
start off and introduce yourself
and tell us a little bit about what
you're doing today and about wherever
you've been from
thank you yosh um just really amazing to
be here today in real life i could
barely believe it and i really didn't
even realize how much i miss you know
interacting with uh other community
members in tech but a little bit about
myself about 15 years of a marketing
career here in silicon valley
and mostly focused on enterprise and b2b
marketing
i
really love helping companies of all
sizes move up to the enterprise as their
selling motion as their marketing motion
these days
we are so lucky and we'll talk about
this a lot more
truly data-driven marketing and just
really being able to do that in a super
robust way and i currently lead uh
marketing for the segment business unit
and we are now part of twilio
great sovereignty how about you tell
the audience about your experience in
marketing and at scale companies yeah
all right again like katrina said super
excited to be here today and it's great
to be at an in-person event so i'm a
savvy
i'm a chemical engineer turned
computational biologist turned marketer
with a sales engineering stint along the
way
um i think the area i'm like i'm really
passionate about is user focused working
in companies with user focus or
developer focused products that's been
my 15 years in
companies building
products in the data space
that's
that's an area that i really enjoy
working in
and i feel like my sales engineering
experience along with kind of the
engineering background brings a unique
perspective to how i approach marketing
and right now i lead marketing at a
small startup called any scale that's
disrupting the distributed computing
space
what about you yosh well so both katrina
and sovereign call me yosh so my name is
jeff or jeffrey but feel free audience
you can call me yosh
so uh i've been fortunate to have been
part of this sas journey for a very long
time so in 1999
i was a user or customer of salesforce
and if you remember salesforce started
in in 1999.
in 2004 2003 actually i joined
salesforce.com as an early employee not
in marketing i was focused on
implementation services helping deploy
salesforce uh to uh to customers uh and
then over my span of years at salesforce
i moved from services
into a team called the app exchange team
and this launched the ecosystem and this
is where i met jason lemkin
and a lot of founders and entrepreneurs
who were starting up sas startups around
the salesforce ecosystem
fortunately after that
stint at salesforce i moved on to to
help start a company called zora and uh
was employee number one outside of the
founding team at zora and
then decided i needed to move into
developer land so over the last really
10 years i've been in data developer
ecosystems i worked at elastic together
we we helped take the company public
and then right now i'm at a developer
security company called sneak
so uh very fortunate uh to have all the
experiences that i've had but you know
we're here to talk about marketing so
let's get into it
so next is
katrina tell us about
the different eras from your perspective
about marketing yeah when we were
putting the slide together um i thought
i would you know just kind of kick that
kick this off and frame it as as a
marketer you know over the last decade
or so
what have i been asked to do so kind of
in the early sas years um
you know we mostly had traditional
marketing this is events this is pr
because we were just at the beginnings
of marketing technology so i don't take
for granted in terms of how far we've
come and what we can actually measure
and it was just so hard in the early
days to understand what your users are
doing and we were just guessing most of
the time
um fast forward a little bit uh you know
with the last decade
there was so much pressure and i've done
my fair round of early stage startups
where you know many ceos and founders
were like katrina go create a category
you know make it a movement and there
was just so much pressure to do so um
you know we'll talk a lot more about
this as well when is the right time to
do this and should you really even do
that what are some pros and cons but the
net of it is you know there was an
explosion of just categories whether it
made sense or not security clouds like
just everything clouds for everything uh
fast forward to now and i always think
now is my you know favorite time no
matter what you know stage of life but
you know i'm referring it to
as really the data sas right it's about
product led growth but we finally have
a better way to instrument
our marketing stacks and to understand
what our customers are doing and how to
better service them so um you know being
truly data driven was what i envisioned
over a decade ago and we're getting
closer and closer every day
so here we are we're going to talk about
hyper growth lessons these are the
companies that we've worked worked at
over the last 10 or so years
and
we wanted to point out one thing that in
our introductions i think
is pretty interesting and also common
amongst all of us
we were not born in marketing we didn't
study marketing we didn't come out of
marketing we were all in either
technical roles or service oriented
roles customer facing roles
uh chemical
biology
and uh we somehow made our way into
marketing so if you are a founder a ceo
if you're trying to bootstrap your
marketing uh it's really hard to find
marketers today so our advice is just
look to the outside look at you know who
are are people in your network or out of
your network that that you can find that
have uh really an insane focus around uh
customer around product around
technology uh and maybe you'll be able
to find marketers who could help your
startup grow so with that let's start
with our our first our first uh lesson
here category creation katrina tell us
about category creation
what have you been doing at twilio
segment
around the category that you've created
it's pretty lofty as a topic um i'll
start off here um
with segment we you know we went about
this exercise as you know is there a
category that truly reflects
exactly what we do and we went down a
path you know for a number of years
where we said we're actually not a cdp
we are not a customer data platform
we're actually
a cdi a customer data infrastructure and
fast forward two years later we ended up
you know pivoting and saying we were a
cdp primarily because that was what the
market needed and what they were telling
us um we needed to do so in addition to
the infrastructure piece we needed to
become more of a platform and move up
stack to a certain extent so um you know
in many ways when you think about
creating a category it's about
doing it for the right reasons and
really listening to your customers and
paying attention to the market signals
versus just charging ahead and saying
i've created this product and i'm going
to make the market come to me by naming
it something
but that's one of several lessons uh
that we learned sorry
and i think to add to that right i mean
i think the the reason for launching
into category creation initiative really
matters right like don't try to create a
category because that's the hottest new
thing to do in marketing or every other
company out there is doing it right if
you start with the user uh start with
the problems that they have challenges
that they have and how are you uniquely
solving those challenges if that thing
doesn't have a name or doesn't quite
have the right name within the market
yeah of course try to define it in a new
way because nothing existing quite cuts
it but there are many companies out
there that have disrupted existing
categories and are extremely successful
i would say kind of back at elastic
actually we pushed back on trying to be
put in a category right i mean there
were analysts who were trying to reach
out to us and say like hey can you you
know participate in this magic quadrant
or this wave and at that time i think it
was too early where we we did not want
to put it be put in the box and we we
kind of stayed away and i think that
worked out pretty well for us because we
were not just a logging company four
years forward or three years forward so
do it for the right reasons don't do it
because it's the
the thing to do
yeah and i'll i'll share some some
insights at zora
we had a big idea that big idea was the
subscription economy so at zora we
intentful uh had purpose to create a
category right we're gonna create a
movement an economy around subscriptions
so we focus a lot of our efforts on
really that marketing and that
evangelical marketing to really push
that message out there so we did a lot
of creative things to to be able to do
that uh everything from
uh you know think about kind of the
world being subscribed to to have books
by our ceo to
focus on having teen on on cnbc and do
interviews and today it's it's a fairly
commonplace term i can tell you that it
took 10 years for that to hit mainstream
though right we were saying this in the
very early days of the company before it
hit mainstream was 10 years later so it
is exceptionally hard to go out and
create a category
let's talk about this next topic uh
sovereign why don't you dig in yeah so
i'm a big proponent of first principles
thinking or starting with the y and that
kind of ties pretty nicely into
pragmatism wins right
and we have numerous cases of examples
of this from at least my journey at
elastic where
um you know a new rep would come to a
product market or marketing and say like
hey we need to be at this event right or
can you go and buy this list because
that's kind of how we did it at my
previous company and we kind of always
went to like why right like why are you
trying to have you looked at the data
that you already have access to
and kind of starting with that and kind
of pushing back and that worked pretty
well
the other area is
have a hypothesis when you're a small
company you don't know what you don't
know you don't know what's going to work
what's not going to work start with a
hypothesis and then use the data to test
that hypothesis out right like
experiment small before you go big
examples of this where again we did
stuff that was unconventional but worked
for elastic were examples like putting a
getting started with webinar on our home
page banner almost no this was pre us
becoming sas where sas everything starts
with like start a free trial so this was
pre-sas a little bit
but most companies wouldn't put a
getting started webinar as their
their top
cta but it worked wonders for us because
we were targeting users we were
targeting developers when they visited
the elastic website that's what they
were looking for and i think until maybe
until today it might be the the biggest
source of of pipeline eventually so
um be pragmatic about look at the data
and be pragmatic about what works and
what doesn't work for your company
because what worked for you in the past
or what worked for somebody else might
not be the right choice for you
great
why don't we move to numbers katrina
share us some some experiences around
kind of how you think about numbers how
do you use numbers
yeah um i um
you know i've spoken about this in the
past which is you know in marketing
um most of my team members know this uh
they actually carry a number and we are
just so focused on just you know the
entire funnel conversion um we forecast
our mqls we look at conversion rates you
know from mqls to you know sales
qualified leads to sales qualified
opportunities and then ultimately
conversion and so we actually even run
you know pipeline meetings ourselves
before we do the pipeline meetings with
sales so it is about data and studying
what's working but it's very very um
how should i say this it's at an
absolute like fast frequency because our
data changes so much and so it's not
like we do these meetings you know once
a month it is on a weekly basis
yeah
yeah i'll talk about plg a little bit
this is really kind of what a lot of
companies here are probably thinking
about is product led growth right so how
do you instrument your product so that
it organically gets all of that
throughput how does it get out to the
hands of users and how do you use that
to create a funnel so in a plg type of
company right data
is absolute you absolutely need to
measure everything so you need to look
at everything from how are you getting
users to to to really sign up
and how are you acquiring those users
how are you getting them to activate and
through what channels are they
activating so say you have different
channels where they can activate through
another ecosystem
and then another ecosystem over here you
need an instrument and be able to
understand
what is performing better or worse
then you need to look at the conversion
rate and then on the monetization side
how do you look at pipeline created
through that plg motion as well as
self-serve revenue
and you can instrument this entire
funnel to be able to
iterate can do a b testing and then
ultimately figure out what works so
uh i think plg is uh is a really
important motion that's happening now it
is a core part of marketing and being
able to use data to drive those
decisions is is an absolute must yeah i
think one thing i'll add that it's not
quite numbers don't lie but
what's becoming so critical in this plg
world or where numbers are plentiful
is that your collaboration or your
partnership with sales but also your
collaboration and partnership with
product and engineering teams is so
critical right because um you can
measure if like a user a feature that
has been designed um i might be driving
people to that feature but if the ux is
not great maybe the feature is not being
used right so you can really use data
and then have those those honest
conversations in
why are you not seeing uptick why are
you not seeing revenue
all right we're going to talk about
experimentation who wants to share
experimentation
experiences
again i think like
start small before you go big
we did a lot of experiments at elastic i
continued to do that at any scale
one big thing i'll say is be intentional
and define upfront how you're going to
measure success right because if you
don't do those two things then you're
just throwing it's just trial and error
that that point right you're just
throwing spaghetti at the wall and
you're seeing what sticks um
[Music]
areas where we did and this is probably
no surprise to a lot of marketers out
there um newsletter designs like
sometimes you might think like a really
polished newsletter is going to actually
be much more successful in terms of
engagement or open rates or
click-throughs actually what we found in
elastic was the the simpler looking
newsletters that were actually not super
polished looking that was shorter
did much better in terms of clicks and
engagement um and so we're like yeah
let's run with this right so started
small like didn't spend three months
trying to like design this amazing
looking thing started small and kind of
iterated right so again be intentional
about your experiments define upfront
how you're going to measure success
and then trust that data
um i think for us you know
you know
when a business is a little bit larger
and you are the head of marketing you're
probably walking into
a well-oiled or decently well-oiled
machine and so what you may find is that
because things are working you know
there's less appetite to do spend for
innovation and what i tell my team is
hey let's make sure whether it's 10 or
20 i want you to take that budget and
innovate and we actually put you know
okrs around innovation so that way you
don't run the risk of just channel
fatigue because i've seen that right
where pipeline just kind of stalls out
because you're doing everything and all
of a sudden something changes and it no
longer works so that's kind of an
important piece as a leader to really
encourage your teams to innovate and
give them the space to do so like they
will not be penalized if they you know
um do a little bit of spend for
innovation
i mean earlier today alex from datadog
was talking about pilots right this is
all about pilots experimentation right
and
you need to be able to train your people
mentor your people as well as coach your
executive team that you're going to
start off small and if things go really
really well you're going to double down
right if things don't go well you're
going to kill it
and you need to have that constant
motion happening ongoing and ongoing
a marketing team at scale you're going
to have hundreds of campaigns running in
the background at all times and you're
going to have new campaigns and you want
to encourage the idea generation you
want to encourage people to come out
with some sort of creative concept that
they want to experiment so you want to
build that into the dna of your team
because that's going to ultimately help
you
really test the market and really figure
out what works and what doesn't work
i would add kind of one thing invest in
your measurement infrastructure your
measurement process early on because
when you're at hundreds or thousands of
campaigns running at one time being able
to see what's working and what's not
that's a that's a pretty hairy data
problem or systems problem so kind of
think about that earlier on uh versus
realizing that spreadsheets don't cut it
when it's a little too late
why don't you talk about community uh
lastic started off as an open source
project and evolved into uh you know a
highly successful commercial business
yeah so at elastic we had a saying that
uh internally we had a saying that
community was everybody's business it's
just that a few of the employees did as
a as a full-time role right so we had a
community team a developer relations or
a developer advocacy team
um
[Music]
i think of this as kind of being again
focused on the user and making
them really successful my personal kind
of anecdote is when josh reached out to
me to recruit me to elastic i'd never
heard of this elastic surge thing and
the first thing you obviously do you
start you know searching and like what
is this elasticsearch thing and what i
was blown away by was
users just like these were open source
users they were blogging about their elk
stack use cases right or they were
tweeting about it and seeing kind of
this almost viral adoption of the
project open source project was one of
the big reasons that brought me to
elastic
so
[Music]
if you focus on the user you focus on
removing the friction and this is a big
part of plg right like you're focused on
the user you're removing the friction
from the user kind of getting to that
value
if you focus on those two things
um the community if it takes off and the
product has value the community is going
to take off and that's going to kind of
the plg thing is the flywheel right
that's going to fuel the flywheel and so
i'm a big proponent of like helping the
community be successful because that's
going to kind of fuel
more users which will eventually turn
into paying customers so
it's a huge multiplier in my opinion
anything
yeah definitely agree definitely agree i
mean both twilio and segment are you
know heavily driven by community um you
know there's a huge investment with
developer marketing but it's not going
to be in your face marketing what i talk
about is the value exchange what value
are we truly providing to our community
in exchange for time right and for them
to play and experiment with our
respective technologies and one of the
most common questions that i get around
community is where does the community
and devrel team sit right a lot of times
these teams start in product they start
in engineering because those were the
first users the first hires of the
company were members of the community
ultimately when you get to scale i find
it more common for this function to sit
within marketing because then you have
the aspects of budget of how do you
have repeatable programs how do you go
at scale across different geos
so at elastic the community team did
start in engineering did sit in product
and then eventually moved over to
marketing and it didn't mean that the
community devrell folks who were
engineers uh felt like they were part of
marketing they were ever
part of the community because the
community is everything and it was an
integral part to our strategy it was
part of our kpis it had executive
alignment and we were able to invest
more in tripling that team tripling that
budget being out there to prioritize
what are the areas that we need to go
build more community and more outreach
in so this is oftentimes a common
question that if you are a founder or if
you're a creator of an open source
project you're probably going to get and
at some point you're going to need to
answer where does that sit over time
when the company gets to scale
irrespective of where it sits though
their mandate needs to be about
community success and community growth
right so just because they're in
marketing don't put a pipeline
attribution number to their programs
because that's counter to how a lot of
the the typical developer relations
developer advocate folks work so you're
gonna lose good talent if you say like
hey the way the way i'm going to measure
you is based on pipeline because that's
not the goal of community teams
plus one
yeah
all right agencies how many of you have
used an agency before and
how many of you like the agency that you
use
sometimes kind of middle ground here all
right why don't we talk about agencies
and you know we've all worked with
agencies
some of them are great some of them
are okay a lot of them kind of suck
what's the best way to work with an
agency katrina um
it's yes agencies um
i think the analogy is you know it's
almost like chiropractic medicine right
like you find a really good chiropractor
and they do wonders right and a bad one
can actually kill you so um in terms of
agencies it's really about not
outsourcing your strategy
right and the ideation what they should
be doing let's just take messaging for
example or product marketing or even pr
right they have their relationships they
can help up level your thinking and help
shape it based on what the market
signals are because that's marketers
right like we create markets they can do
that piece but the true ideation you
know your business the best so that part
if you start outsourcing that to
agencies and i do a fair amount of
advising for early stage startups that's
where it really goes awry
what do you guys think
so i'm at a 60 percent startup right now
and the marketing team is three people
so there's no way i can run marketing
without agencies but i think what
katrina said is really important you
cannot outsource your thinking right so
the what we want to do um the why we
want to do it still comes from
from the company comes from the founders
comes from the executive team right and
the agency is almost like an execution
arm
um and so yeah we use agencies or
contractors a lot right now but um the
thinking state stays with us
yeah so i think agencies can be very
diverse right you're going to have an
agency for your comms and your pr so you
want them to help you amplify your
message but again you need to own that
message platform you need to own the
story
you need to get your ceo involved your
founders involved
even if you're an early stage company
working with with board members and
advisors right they're going to be
great advocates and they're also going
to have a lot of insights around why did
they invest in your company why did they
believe that you're going to do
something that's disruptive so
leverage everybody in your your
ecosystem in order to craft that that
right story and again test and ideate
with that that message in the early days
there's other agencies that you're going
to outsource for events right an event
at scale again that experience around
the events i think it needs to be core
right uh how do you want to appear how
do you want your presence to to be
at that event
should be core uh at when you get to
scale
and then digital marketing there's a
whole bunch of other agencies that can
help you out with digital marketing and
seo but within seo you could outsource
that to another agency
but internally you need to own that
content strategy right you need to own
the content strategy you need to know
what are the keywords that you need to
rank high in order to drive organic
traffic to your website so again the tip
here is to make sure that as you think
about agencies that you want to leverage
whether they're independent or full
skill agencies really consider what you
need to own
and what you do outsource
as is 2b so uh there's
there's so many different frameworks out
there for for really trying to to kind
of
build messaging and positioning and
sales enablement
there's textbooks out there there's
harvard business school books
and classes uh katrina why don't you
talk about kind of the as-is to be and
the simplicity of it
yes this was something that azura that
um i believe sean price our president
who ran sales at the time kind of taught
us and so you know as a marketer there
was all this pressure to tell write like
a huge story create a category create a
moment but what really ended up
resonating above and beyond that is
simply painting for your customers what
the current state is and then
positioning right what the 2b is and it
was something that just ripped through
our sales and everyone loved it because
it was so simple to understand both for
the field as well as for our customers
and so to this day
at um
twilio segment at segment we use
something called command of the message
but the print the main premise is you
paint the as is picture right a world um
a circumstance the problem you're
looking to solve for your customers and
then you compare it to a 2b sounds
really simple but i think sometimes as
product marketers we make it a little
bit more complicated than necessary
anything you like no i completely agree
right i mean without showing somebody
the vision of um
what your product what your service what
your solution like what does that future
look like it's it's hard to close the
sale yeah and try to get on one page
right try to just get it on one page
crystallize it on one page make it easy
digestible
and battle test it right sit down with a
customer sit down with a user sit down
with a sales rep
if i'm a marketer
i'm going to get on calls
with the sales team and i want to hear
them go through
how they position the company
when we were in the early stages at zora
right one of the things that we all had
to do was sell right we had to go close
customers and that was by far the best
experience because you hear the
objections you hear why they don't want
to move yet you hear why they like some
other software that they're already
using even though that the promise of
this is better so really getting all
that feedback and then channeling back
into this framework is really really
useful
so critical to be for marketers out
there so critical to be in front of
customers right like don't create the
message or the deck and throw it over
yourself sales people or your sales
engineers like you need to feel the
discomfort of a message not landing to
like actually really come back and say
okay i'm gonna tweak the message right
so be in front of customers as much or
users prospects as much as you can be so
true
okay
pipeline now this is a this is a meaty
topic and there's so many
so many tools out there that help you
measure and attribute pipeline you look
at all this data that we have today uh i
think this is uh this is a really
important topic for marketers to really
put a graph around because it's not just
about pipeline things that that we do
have impact across the entire really
kind of funnel uh above and beyond
pipelines so katrina do you want to
share some some examples of what you're
doing around think about it as the full
complete customer life cycle and so you
know i am looking at you know
opportunities that are sourced by sales
and i follow right to see a year later
how you know how is this customer doing
how is the mps score right are they
happy are we unlocking additional use
cases because it's about that full pipe
because you know many companies um that
i've been a part of we do a great job
bringing in the pipeline closing the
deal but guess what a year later right
you have a churn issue and for those in
sas that's kind of a big deal so you
know
you almost have to get ahead of that by
a couple steps and don't just look at
your pipe look at the entire customer
you know journey or your entire customer
life cycle
yeah i think the thing to add again
elastic experience we were
very much a bottom-up model but a
bottom-up where there was a huge open
source component to it right so
oftentimes we would
see um mission critical apps being run
on the free open source version which
will eventually convert to paying
customers right so but if we only
uh focused on pipe like we would have
not grown that open source community so
there was like a pre-pipe
adoption component that we really
focused on and that eventually converted
into a pipe right so when we did deal
reviews of some of the bigger deals you
would sometimes see like two or three
years ago there was an open source use
case and there were two open source use
cases and three open source use cases
and then they grew right and eventually
they converted into being customers so
sometimes it's not just about the pipe
yeah i'll talk about seo i think seo is
really important especially if you're an
early stage company is you need to look
at what is that organic traffic and what
is that traffic you want to capture and
how can you build content in order to
capture that so everything looking at
your keyword rankings all the way to
your top forming blogs
do you have the tagging right you have
the infrastructure right within your own
systems uh to to be able to to
distribute that content uh and be able
to capture users when they're searching
for something so i think kind of seo is
something that's really important i know
that right now in my current job i get a
monthly seo report and we are tracking
are we increasing or decreasing our
rankings in our you know top 10 uh kind
of keywords that that we know we need to
to really focus on uh we're also focused
on the high performing blogs and high
performing kind of assets on our website
and really looking across the board
around how do we get featured in a
google snippet right because if you get
a google snippet in addition to just
being surfaced on on a search result
it's going to yield uh significant
uh significant traffic to your site and
then once you capture that traffic then
you need to measure everything through
that entire funnel so how did that yield
into somebody opting into something and
actually giving you an email address or
their name or their company how did that
yield into somebody starting up a free
trial or just a plg kind of free
freemium usage of your product so again
measure everything and i think it's also
important to educate you need to educate
your entire executive team your entire
your board around that that that this is
not just about
a pipeline num number right of course
we're doing everything in service to
help the company grow revenue
for the sales teams to to make their
their their numbers to ensure that
there's an adequate coverage ratio but
it's not just about that if you think
about a campaign today
you probably find that a user who then
converts to a customer over that
one year span 18 months man 24 month
span may have participated in 20 to 30
to 50 different campaigns over that life
span so be able to attribute all of that
information and all that data so that
then you can figure out what are the
levers that you need to double down on
uh what are the things that that can
really help you grow the business one of
the asked me that i think you touched
upon that i think is important that i
heard outside when we were walking by
one of the presentations is really net
retention right net retention or ner
you know expansion
absolutely critical important metric as
a marketer we need to be very in tune
with that metric because we need to make
sure that we're not only just growing
the new base
but also that we're helping the company
expand because this is a number that
investors look at that wall street looks
at so not just churn but what is your
net expansion rate and how are you able
to
onboard your customers
and then expand those customers and
ultimately renew them so again measure
everything is is something that we think
is really really important uh let's uh
go to our last one uh and this is about
recipes
we like we all like food so uh what's
your favorite recipe
my favorite recipe oh my gosh
um
actually my husband has perfected how to
bake crepes at home that's a pretty good
one
what's your favorite recipe
i have too many um
i don't have one i have too many um i do
a lot of like indian cooking and there
are yeah recipes that i go to all the
time yeah
uh recipes for marketing though
i was like kachina started with cribs um
i know i like i think of recipes are
just like repeatable motions right so
start small see what works and then
really focus on how do you
um almost like automate it to the level
that it can be automated or
codified so that you're not spending as
many cycles
uh thinking about it right it almost
becomes a well-oiled machine
um so i think elastic like releases were
there was a well-perfected
machine for how we launch products every
six to eight weeks
um and i'm sure katrina like you'll have
examples of it just it just adds a lot
of efficiency to your process or to how
you operate and then you can spend those
cycles doing something else where you
put more creative thought you put more
kind of brain power and the stuff that's
already perfected it's almost like self
self running yeah we've also created
recipes that are external facing for a
developer community so whether it's like
how to personalize your sms text
messages you know you know doing omni
channel on top of a cdp to you know
better instrumentation of some of the
most common you know uh marketing stack
uh vendors out there so we're actually
coming up we're coming out with
something that we're calling literally a
recipe book and i love it it's
step-by-step instructions um
but um
what you when you do that the signal
that you're sending out to your
community
is that you're adding value and you're
helping them you know solve something or
think about a problem
in a different way so that's been really
the biggest
engagement that we get so forget you
know all of our you know other tactics
uh by far recipes um you know uh really
convert well and you know people over
and over again ask for more so that
engagement um is huge yeah i think
there's a scale aspect of recipes once
you create one recipe book then you just
keep kind of replacing that and then
repeating that in another area so a
recipe could be an ecosystem so you
think that you have
an ecosystem where you can acquire users
acquire customers and you build one for
one ecosystem then you take that and
then you leverage that for a different
ecosystem but there's probably going to
be different nuances that you build into
that recipe book but you can leverage
that same framework the same thing
applies to verticals every marketer
probably gets the question around i want
to go after some vertical called
financial services technology the
federal government
and everybody wants content they want
different collateral they want all this
stuff on the website
and i think the key thing here is to
really think about how do you make
things repeatable in that vertical so if
it's financial services how do you first
learn from your customers and what are
customers saying about
your product relative to their industry
in terms of solving their pain points
and then you take that information and
then you figure out okay what are the
type of
content and campaigns that we can do to
accelerate our growth in this vertical
or area and then what are the trade
shows and events that you need to go to
then ultimately over time then maybe the
sales team starts to be verticalized as
the company gets bigger into that
vertical but really at the beginning
it's all about how do you create
repeatable things based on what you know
users or customers are successful with
so i think we're at the end so we have
some key takeaways here so do you want
to talk about kind of your takeaways
from
your many many years of experiences in
in marketing and helping hyper growth
companies uh build and scale
i think it's building a learning culture
and mechanizing that uh so example of
this is you know for the marketing team
we do a monthly retrospective and so we
celebrate our wins and then we go
through and actually document what could
have gone better and what we would do
differently in the future so that's
something that uh you know that motion
internally for us um you know i've been
i'm probably on year six you know doing
something like that that's helpful
because it encourages people to
experiment
embrace failures it's okay and then
actually learn from it and do better so
that's kind of my tip for the day
um i would say don't be an island i
think that's something i learned from
yours right you are a part of an
organization know how the work that
you're doing as marketers fits into the
broader
okrs company objectives company
initiatives
it's easy especially at a startup for
marketing to get spread really thin
so again kind of clear communication
with
your peers on stuff you're doing and not
doing and how you're going to measure if
it's working and not working matters a
lot so i think those are my two things
know how your work fits into the broader
goals
uh focus experiment and measure
yeah i'll i'll play on what a sovereign
set is i think market needs to be
part of of core kind of core kpis in the
core strategy of the company so uh
really when you think about an
organization today you have r d which is
engineering and product right they need
to deliver and build product then you
have the gtm function which is generally
sales marketing customer success sales
engineers really marketing has a seat at
the table in terms of driving strategy
building the plan participating in the
plan looking at segmentation of how
the universe of customers are being
segmented
and then driving the plan strategy and
budget to be able to execute and then
you have gna
as well as core so when you think about
kind of marketing from that lens
uh it is absolutely critical absolutely
core to a business and it's not just
about branding it's not just about the
signage and the the beautiful things
that you see
there's a lot of nitty gritty kind of
nuts and bolts within marketing uh and
if you are the head of marketing uh if
you are the vp of marketing or the cmo
it's your job
to be able to communicate that broadly
across the organization right and be
visible be able to make sure that the
board understands what you're doing be
visible making sure that the rest of the
executive team also knows what you're
doing and that you're building
alliances across the entire company
because marketing as asobre said cannot
exist and function in an island it's a a
probably
the most cross-functional the most
complex organization today in any
organization especially in tech
[Music]
you